{{{
	"title" : "Ximera Workshop 1: Day 1",
	"tags"  : [ "shuttleworth foundation,nsf,workshop" ],
	"category" : "ximera workshop",
	"date" : "7-28-2014",
	"author" : "Bart Snapp"
}}}

Today was the first day of the Ximera Workshop 1. With around 30
participants from all over the nation, we can feel the excitement for
Ximera growing!

<!--more-->


Thanks to support from NSF and the Shuttleworth Foundation, we have
put together an informal and lively workshop. Today was filled with
getting people started with Ximera, attempting to answer the somewhat
difficult question of exactly what it is Ximera does, tearing down
current Ximera syntax, and making wish-lists of what we want Ximera to
do.

So with that said, I'll do my best to explain what Ximera is all
about: In essence Ximera provides authoring tools that allow the
simultaneous creation of PDF files and online materials.

While the authoring language is basically plain LaTeX, to say that we
are providing LaTeX to HTML conversion is somewhat misleading. We are
using LaTeX to contain all the relevant information for an interactive
online platform, and then Ximera interprets this information in a
relevant way. Here we see an infographic displaying the basic idea of
how content is deployed.

![Ximera Infographic](XimeraGraphic.png)


Authors can edit LaTeX files on their computer. These files can
produce PDF files after compiling in the Ximera document class. These
files are stored on GitHub, thus facilitating collaboration. Once the
file is on GitHub, the Ximera server can deploy the content on
ximera.osu.edu. This allows students from all over the world access to
authors' content.

Ximera is a project that needs a community to survive, the XW1 is a
good start in building this community.


